Nzara ,  Sudan  (CNN)  --  Albert  Abuda  might  never  see  his  children  again.  Long-haired ,  dirty  men  emerged  from  the  dense  bush  around  his  village  one  day.  They  spoke  a  language  he  did  not  understand ,  fighting  in  a  conflict  equally  as  foreign  and  incomprehensible.  They  were  members  of  the  notorious  Lord's  Resistance  Army ,  or  LRA.  They  left  with  more  than  the  year's  harvest.  His  son  is  now  likely  training  as  a  ruthless  guerrilla  warrior ,  and  his  13-year  old  daughter  might  be  forced  into  commanders'  harems.  Meanwhile ,  Abuda  wastes  away  in  a  makeshift  camp  with  others  telling  similar  tales  and  living  on  the  generosity  of  nearby  villagers  who  sometimes  provide  cassava  leaves  to  boil.  "Since  I  arrived  here ,  life  has  become  miserable  to  me.  As  you  can  see ,  my  body  keeps  shrinking  because  there  is  no  proper  food ,"  he  said  in  the  town  of  Nzara  in  Southern  Sudan ,  where  he  and  the  rest  of  his  community  have  fled.  The  LRA ,  which  follows  the  self-proclaimed  spiritual  powers  of  leader  Joseph  Kony ,  arose  as  a  rebel  movement  in  the  late  1980s  among  the  Acholi  people  of  marginalized  northern  Uganda.  But  Kony  and  his  men  are  no  longer  in  Uganda ,  and  little  remains  of  any  group  ideology.  Instead ,  the  LRA  are  known  for  their  seasoned  survival  skills  and  brutal  tactics  of  terror ,  roaming  within  a  weakly-governed  nexus  where  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo ,  Central  African  Republic ,  and  Sudan's  autonomous  region  of  Southern  Sudan  meet.  The  guerrillas  have  been  on  the  run  since  being  scattered  from  their  temporary  base  in  Congolese  territory  by  a  botched  U.S.-backed  December  2008  attack  on  Kony's  position ,  dubbed  "Operation  Lightning  Thunder."  Although  forced  to  adjust  to  life  on  the  run ,  little  else  about  its  tactics  have  changed.  Known  for  hacking  off  the  lips  or  ears  of  victims ,  the  LRA  kills  without  remorse ,  leaving  behind  a  scattered  trail  of  missing  children ,  looted  villages ,  and  burned  huts.  Its  bands  of  bush  fighters  now  appear  and  disappear  across  the  three  troubled  nations ,  traveling  in  elusive  small  groups  and  ravaging  local  communities  for  food ,  clothes ,  and  medicine.  They  also  seek  another  sort  of  booty.  No  longer  able  to  recruit  for  an  armed  movement  that  long  ago  lost  a  coherent  goal ,  Kony's  men  must  replenish  the  ranks  through  alternative  means.  The  New  York-based  advocacy  group  Human  Rights  Watch  estimates  the  group  has  abducted  700  people  --  a  third  children ,  like  Abuda's  --  in  the  last  18  months.  The  group's  victims  are  flooding  the  region  as  hapless  squatters.  Those  who  cross  the  area's  porous  international  borders  are  fortunate  enough  to  receive  some  help  from  the  United  Nations  as  refugees ,  but  a  loophole  in  international  humanitarian  law  means  that  Abuda  and  the  25 ,000  other  southern  Sudanese  internally  displaced  by  the  LRA  this  year  are  left  mostly  to  fend  for  themselves.  Any  end  to  the  conflict  appears  as  distant  as  ever.  Internationally-sponsored  peace  talks  collapsed  in  2008 ,  and  Kony  appears  wary  of  taking  his  chances  with  terms  of  surrender.  The  International  Criminal  Court  at  The  Hague  has  put  out  an  arrest  warrant  on  his  head ,  indicting  the  Ugandan  warlord  on  33  charges  of  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  Amid  youthful  anti-LRA  lobbying  in  Washington ,  President  Barack  Obama  signed  a  law  in  May  giving  his  administration  180  days  to  complete  a  new  strategy  for  ending  Kony's  reign  of  terror  and  protecting  civilians  in  the  LRA's  wake.  Here  in  Southern  Sudan's  fertile  Western  Equatoria  state  --  where  LRA  activities  have  turned  the  region's  breadbasket  into  a  hungry  community  relying  on  outsiders  for  help  --  there  is  confusion  among  officials  as  to  what  the  new  legislation  means.  "The  American  government  gave  Obama  six  months  to  fight  and  root  those  people  out  of  the  areas  they  are  operating ,"  says  Robert  Bandi ,  the  advisor  for  political  affairs  in  the  Western  Equatoria  state  government.  "I  think  the  six  months  are  about  to  expire.  We  do  not  know  how ,  [but]  the  Americans  should  have  come  in."  "Up  to  now  the  international  community  has  left  us  alone  to  fight  this  war  imposed  on  us ,"  he  said.  Local  county  commissioner  Elia  Richard  Box  says  that  financial  support  is  what  he  and  other  authorities  could  use  most.  "Apart  from  money ,  I  do  not  know  what  the  international  community  can  do ,"  he  said.  If  funds  are  provided ,  there  is  no  guarantee  the  aid  would  find  its  way  here.  Financial  oversight  is  poor  in  Southern  Sudan's  nascent  government ,  which  came  to  power  in  a  2005  peace  deal  after  a  21-year  rebellion  of  its  own.  The  Southern  Sudan  army ,  the  SPLA ,  is  still  learning  how  to  operate  as  a  professional  military  and  is  focused  on  a  number  of  other  internal  and  external  threats  as  well.  "The  LRA  is  a  very  weak  guerrilla  movement ,"  says  Lieutenant  general  Kuol  Deim  Kuol ,  SPLA's  spokesman.  "They  operate  in  small  groups  of  three ,  and  when  you  try  to  confront  them  they  do  not  stand  in  front  of  you."  "They  behave  like  rats.  A  rat  comes  out  of  a  hole ,  it  comes  and  picks  what  it  wants ,"  he  said.  "It  is  difficult  for  you  to  trace  it  back  to  the  hole."  Instead ,  the  Southern  Sudan  government  is  relying  on  the  assistance  of  neighboring  Uganda's  military ,  the  UPDF ,  to  do  most  of  the  chasing  of  the  LRA  themselves.  Even  if  Kony  is  finally  killed  or  captured ,  hundreds  of  former  abducted  boys  have  now  grown  into  men.  They  have  learned  to  operate  in  mostly  autonomous  cells  far  distanced  from  their  leader ,  and  know  no  life  apart  from  their  guerrilla  existence.  Abuda ,  appearing  thin  and  weary ,  most  now  live  with  the  knowledge  that  his  son  and  daughter  could  soon  grow  up  into  Kony's  next  generation  of  followers.
